README.md, before:

```
npm install
npm run start
```

```
open http://localhost:3000
```

- [x] See if static html files can be severed along with [Web Components](https://www.webcomponents.org/)
    - Be careful when serving static files, using a wildcard can lead to all the files being accessible. **DO NOT PLACE SENSETIVE FILES HERE**
- [x] See if working with a renderer can use web as well as render children
- [x] Try and see if ts files can be compiled to js while ```npm run dev``` is on
    - [x] Get vite to build the bundle file with all of the web components as wither ts or js files as well as watch them
    - [x] Run one command line to run both build and server together. ofc there's a [npm package](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30950032/how-can-i-run-multiple-npm-scripts-in-parallel)
    - [x] Add tailwind support for web components so that I can use the shadowDom without having to worry about document lvl css
        - Easiest way to use tailwindcss inside a Web Component is to not attach a shadow dom so the component is no longer isolated i.e not reusable but coupled. You also loose the ability to use slots but to solve this one can instead then query the children and render them that way instead. 
        - Another solution is to allow for an `@import` inside the `<style>`-tag but that is an anti pattern that loads the css after the component has mounted so it takes longer to render the component. 
        - The thirdish solution is to insert a `<link>`-tag which can be solve in to ways, either load in the css from a cdn which then renders the with out the css for a brief moment or you can instead build your own tailwindcss file using the following command `npx tailwindcss build [path]/styles.css -o output.css` which provides you a pretty chunky css file which doesn't have all the css one wants as well... So in my opinion if I'm working on a internal personal projects that use tailwind I would just not include the shadow dom. 
- [x] Understanding web components
    - Working with shadow dom templates allows for slots to be used which simplifies the dev experience by a whole lot but it's encapsulated and I can't use tailwind css. If I don't have a shadowdom then I can pass children can cause some design issue but I can use tailwind css. The problem is not that I can't place my tags however I like since the children are in an array I would need to re-arrange them. I can use the `insertBefore()` function which then requires me to get look in to `childNodes` array but there has to be a more efficient way 'cos if I do decide to add another child the array will change maybe querySelectors? `insertAdjacentElement()` seems promising but doesn't work with Nodes. If I want to use it would need to style the creating element in the following way `divEl.classList.add('p-1', 'border-solid', 'border-2', 'border-cyan-800');` which is kinda cumbersome and doesn't provide a good DX. I found out the best solution to be something like this when inserting the Web Components template `this.insertBefore(template.content.cloneNode(true), document.querySelector("#cool-div-tag2"));`, I would be required to name the tags in a smart way and pass it in as a prop or something. 
    - There are lifecycle methods but they are pretty straight forward so no worries there. connectedCallBack is the onMount, disconnectedCallback is the onDestroy and attributeChangedCallback is the willUpdate. If you want to observer props then a static observer is in order that has an array of values to be observed. Web components requires a fair bit of js knowledge to get working well and to be honest this is where I'm lacking. The attributeChangedCallback is called before the connectedCallback function so if I want to pass props to the Web Component I would need to process the props inside the attributeChangedCallback function and not the constructor since the props aren't accessible there.
- [x] Understanding how to render dynamic html from the server
    - My initial idea of rendering dynamic html doesn't work 'cos I had no idea what a template engine was I had to dig thourgh a hole lot of information just to understand that `{{}}` inside a html file isn't native to html... I could create my own template engine (hardpass) or I could create a dependency to my project by using a battled tested template engine. I'm looking into the following template engines [Mustache.js](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html) which works with cloud workers, something I don't use or plan on using lol. [Nunjucks.js](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) which is a powerful tool that looks really similar to how [django templates their html](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/templates/) and then there's also [ETA](https://eta.js.org/) which is really similar to [EJS](https://ejs.co/) but better according to reddit, and tbh I don't like the DX of EJS and ETA. There is [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) but everyone under the sun says it's a pain in the ass to work with. And by browsing reddit I've seen to have found my match, [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/) which seems to be as powerful as EJS and as light as Mustache.js
- [x] Implement my own template engine middleware.
    - The documentation for [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/) is a catastrophe, I'll create some pull requests with better error handling when trying to load in partials. You know what the error handling is generally bad lol. The best course of action would be to to create some intellisense and code snippets for this template engine. It's very powerful and perform well against the battle tested ones. The implementation for the template engine middleware wasn't that hard. The hardest part was trying to fetch the damned file from my directory, I had to dig trough the source code of SquirrellyJS so that I could debug my solution. It works now...
- [ ] Implement the Todo app, use [tRPC](https://trpc.io/) or just [htmx](https://htmx.org/) for the client component
    - [ ] In JSX render 
        - [ ] Put JSX todo in a different route
    - [ ] HTML static files
        - [ ] Put HTML todo in a different route
    - [ ] Check out AlpineJs
- [ ] Check out how to use tailwind inside a open shadow dom again.
- [ ] Add yarn and pnpm support
- [ ] Create a pull request for better error handling and documentation for [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/).
- [ ] Create intellisense and auto complete for SquirrellyJS.

Commit message:

Tailwind css with link works

README.md, after:

```
npm install
npm run start
```

```
open http://localhost:3000
```

- [x] See if static html files can be severed along with [Web Components](https://www.webcomponents.org/)
    - Be careful when serving static files, using a wildcard can lead to all the files being accessible. **DO NOT PLACE SENSETIVE FILES HERE**
- [x] See if working with a renderer can use web as well as render children
- [x] Try and see if ts files can be compiled to js while ```npm run dev``` is on
    - [x] Get vite to build the bundle file with all of the web components as wither ts or js files as well as watch them
    - [x] Run one command line to run both build and server together. ofc there's a [npm package](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30950032/how-can-i-run-multiple-npm-scripts-in-parallel)
    - [x] Add tailwind support for web components so that I can use the shadowDom without having to worry about document lvl css
        - Easiest way to use tailwindcss inside a Web Component is to not attach a shadow dom so the component is no longer isolated i.e not reusable but coupled. You also loose the ability to use slots but to solve this one can instead then query the children and render them that way instead. 
        - Another solution is to allow for an `@import` inside the `<style>`-tag but that is an anti pattern that loads the css after the component has mounted so it takes longer to render the component. 
        - The thirdish solution is to insert a `<link>`-tag which can be solve in to ways, either load in the css from a cdn which then renders the with out the css for a brief moment or you can instead build your own tailwindcss file using the following command `npx tailwindcss build [path]/styles.css -o output.css` which provides you a pretty chunky css file which doesn't have all the css one wants as well... So in my opinion if I'm working on a internal personal projects that use tailwind I would just not include the shadow dom. 
- [x] Understanding web components
    - Working with shadow dom templates allows for slots to be used which simplifies the dev experience by a whole lot but it's encapsulated and I can't use tailwind css. If I don't have a shadowdom then I can pass children can cause some design issue but I can use tailwind css. The problem is not that I can't place my tags however I like since the children are in an array I would need to re-arrange them. I can use the `insertBefore()` function which then requires me to get look in to `childNodes` array but there has to be a more efficient way 'cos if I do decide to add another child the array will change maybe querySelectors? `insertAdjacentElement()` seems promising but doesn't work with Nodes. If I want to use it would need to style the creating element in the following way `divEl.classList.add('p-1', 'border-solid', 'border-2', 'border-cyan-800');` which is kinda cumbersome and doesn't provide a good DX. I found out the best solution to be something like this when inserting the Web Components template `this.insertBefore(template.content.cloneNode(true), document.querySelector("#cool-div-tag2"));`, I would be required to name the tags in a smart way and pass it in as a prop or something. 
    - There are lifecycle methods but they are pretty straight forward so no worries there. connectedCallBack is the onMount, disconnectedCallback is the onDestroy and attributeChangedCallback is the willUpdate. If you want to observer props then a static observer is in order that has an array of values to be observed. Web components requires a fair bit of js knowledge to get working well and to be honest this is where I'm lacking. The attributeChangedCallback is called before the connectedCallback function so if I want to pass props to the Web Component I would need to process the props inside the attributeChangedCallback function and not the constructor since the props aren't accessible there.
- [x] Understanding how to render dynamic html from the server
    - My initial idea of rendering dynamic html doesn't work 'cos I had no idea what a template engine was I had to dig thourgh a hole lot of information just to understand that `{{}}` inside a html file isn't native to html... I could create my own template engine (hardpass) or I could create a dependency to my project by using a battled tested template engine. I'm looking into the following template engines [Mustache.js](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html) which works with cloud workers, something I don't use or plan on using lol. [Nunjucks.js](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) which is a powerful tool that looks really similar to how [django templates their html](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/templates/) and then there's also [ETA](https://eta.js.org/) which is really similar to [EJS](https://ejs.co/) but better according to reddit, and tbh I don't like the DX of EJS and ETA. There is [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) but everyone under the sun says it's a pain in the ass to work with. And by browsing reddit I've seen to have found my match, [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/) which seems to be as powerful as EJS and as light as Mustache.js
- [x] Implement my own template engine middleware.
    - The documentation for [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/) is a catastrophe, I'll create some pull requests with better error handling when trying to load in partials. You know what the error handling is generally bad lol. The best course of action would be to to create some intellisense and code snippets for this template engine. It's very powerful and perform well against the battle tested ones. The implementation for the template engine middleware wasn't that hard. The hardest part was trying to fetch the damned file from my directory, I had to dig trough the source code of SquirrellyJS so that I could debug my solution. It works now...
    - Some cheat sheets, they have to normal, ifs and loops and the such. But the strongest part of this is the `{{@extendsFile('path/to/layout')}}` command with this the engine will only reload the contents that differ and load the stuff that I've already passed down. Then we have the `{{@block('foo')}}` command that can add new variables as well as reference them using the `{{#foo}}` command in the extended files. If I want to read the documentation of this I could just read [Nunjucks's](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html), they are pretty similar. I noticed one thing though and that is that SquirrellyJS doesn't provide support for rendering the parent blocks content, you can only change it. I might use Nunjucks seeing as it's great but I don't think I would need those features honestly. But nonetheless I know how to implement my own template engine middleware! I found out as well that if I want to use the extendsFile helper the output file or locations of files aren't in the directory but their own template directory meaning I would need to specify the src in the script tags even further. Nope I just forgot a / lol...
- [x] See how Lit Element provides tailwind css. 
    - Didn't need to copy Lit, all I need is to build the tailwind css file every time I add a tailwind class, it builds pretty fast still but I don't think this is actually the most optimal solution especially if one wants to use the shadowdom.
- [ ] Implement the Todo app, use [tRPC](https://trpc.io/) or just [htmx](https://htmx.org/) for the client component
    - [ ] In JSX render 
        - [ ] Put JSX todo in a different route
    - [ ] HTML static files
        - [ ] Put HTML todo in a different route
    - [ ] Check out AlpineJs.
- [ ] Add yarn and pnpm support
- [ ] Create a pull request for better error handling and documentation for [SquirrellyJS](https://squirrelly.js.org/).
- [ ] Create intellisense and auto complete for SquirrellyJS.
